Among the choices you take in configuring your recommender systems, one of the choices you make is what will the recommender system recommend. You can make the recommender system recommend movies likely to be rated 5 stars by the user, which is a good use case. You can also recommend products most likely to be purchased, also good. You can also recommend ads more likely to be clicked on. What many companies will do is try to show ads that are likely to be clicked on and where the advertiser had put in a high bid because for many ad models, the revenue that the company collects depends on whether the ad was clicked on and what the advertiser had bid per-click. While this is a profit-maximizing strategy, there are also some possible negative implications of this type of advertising. Another use case of the recommender systems some comapnies implement is to show the most profitable products. While, it isn't the most unreasonable thing to do, from the user's perspective, when a website recommends a product, it would be better if they are transparent about how they are recommending products. A recommender system could also recommend videos leading to maximum watch time. Specifically, websites that earn ad revenue, tend to have an incentive to keep you on the site for long periods of time. Trying to maximize the time you spend on the site is one way for the site to try to get more of your time so they can show you more ads. While, the first two examples are innocuous, the other 3 may not cause any harm, or could become problematic use cases for recommender systems.

Lets take a deeper look at the ad recommender system example. Take the travel industry, in the travel industry, the way to succeed is to give people good travel experiences. Lets say there is a good travel business that earns a lot of profit and provides travellers with a good trip. Due to their success, they bid higher for ads, and since the advertiser will bid higher for ads, it will bring in more people to the site. This is a virtuous cycle. Lets look at a bad example. Lets look at payday loans, that tends to charge higher interest rates, often to low income people, and one of the ways to be successful in this industry, is to efficiently squeeze customers for every single dollar you can get out of them. If they do that, they will rake in more profit, then in turn, they will bid higher for ads, and then when advertisers bid for their ads, they will get even more traffic. One amelioration can be to not accept ads from exploitative businesses, but thats easier said than done, because how will you define an exploitative business? But this will casue discussions to be taken place, ideas will be exchanged, which will lead to better decision-making.