Anomaly detection algorithm looks at an unlabeled dataset of normal events and thereby learns to detect or raise a red flag if there is an unusual or anomalous event.

Lets look at example. For example, you were applying anomaly detection to detect possible problems with aircraft engines that were being manufactured. After an aircraft rolls off the assembly line, you can compute a number of different features of the aircraft engine. So lets say feature x_1 measures the heat generated by the engine and feature x_2 measures the vibration intensity, etc.

Normally, aircraft manufactures don't make bad engines often, so the data of the behavior of m aircraft engines, you would see that most of them will be fine. The anomaly detection algorithm is, that after the algorithm has seen these m examples of how airplanes typically behave, if a brand new engine rolls off the assembly line with a new feature vector x_test, we would like to know if similar to the ones that have been manufactured before, or if there is something weird about it that makes it suspect.

Most common way to carry out anomaly detection is through a technique called density estimation. For a dataset of m examples, we will build a model for the probability of x. Meaning what we will try to figure out is what values of the features x_1 and x_2 have high and low probabilities of being seen in the dataset. When you are given a test set, you will compute the probabilities of the features, if they are smaller than some small value epsilon, we will say that this could be an anomaly.

Anomaly detection is used in Fraud detection on website, you will colect information about a user's behavior like how often they log in, or how many webpages they have visited  or how much is their typing speed etc. If an anomaly is detected, you wont just shut off the account, you would ask the security team to take a closer look or put in some addtitional security checks like asking the user for their identity with a cell phone number or a captcha test etc. This algorithm isnt only used to find fake accounts but also used to identify financial fraud if there is an unusual pattern of purchases. The algorithm is also used in manufacturing as we have previously seen, but also in monitoring computers data centers and see if there are performing as expected by monitoring their memory usage, number of disc accesses/sec, CPU load, and network traffic etc.