Many robotic control applications, including the lunar lander application that you work on in the practice lab, have continuous state spaces. Let's take a look at what that means and how to generalize the concept we've talked about to these continuous state spaces.

I use a discrete set of states, meaning the Mars rover can be in only one of six positions. But most robots can only be in more than one of six positions or any number of discrete number of positions. For example, if the Mars rover can be anywhere in a straight line, so that it's position could be represented by number between the range 0-6 kms where any number is valid, that would be an example of continuous state space, because a position can be represented by a number such as that is 2.7 kms, or 4.8 kms etc.

Lets say you are building a self-driving car or a truck and you want to control this to drive smoothly, then the state of this truck might include a few numbers such as its x-position, y-position, it's orientation or angle Theta, as well as it's speed in x-direction, y-direction and how quickly it's turning per second (1 deg/s, 90 deg/s). Using the above example, we can represent the state of the truck or the car as a vector of 6 numbers, where each number can take on any value within it's valid range.

What if you're building a reinforcement learning algorithm to control an autonomous helicopter, how would you characterize the position of a helicopter?. The positioning of the helicopter would include is x position, such as how far north or south is a helicopter, is y position. Maybe how far on the east-west axis is the helicopter, and then also z, the height of the helicopter above ground. But other than the position, the helicopter also has an orientation, and conventionally, one way to capture its orientation is with three additional numbers, one of which captures of the row of the helicopter. Is it rolling to the left or the right? The pitch, is it pitching forward or pitching up, pitching back, and then finally the yaw which is what's the compass orientation is it facing. If facing north or east or south or west? To summarize, the state of the helicopter includes is position in the say, north-south direction, is positioned in the east-west direction, y is height above ground, and also the row, the pitch, and also that yaw of helicopter. To write this down, the state therefore includes the position x, y, z, and then the row pitch, and yaw denoted with the Greek alphabets Phi, Theta and Omega. But to control the helicopter, we also need to know its speed in the x-direction, in the y-direction, and in the z direction, as well as its rate of turning, also called the angular velocity. How fast is this row changing and how fast is this pitch changing and how fast is its yaw changing?